---
docs: "DOCS-1520"
---

This table summarizes the nginx.conf directives for NGINX App Protect WAF functionality.

{{<bootstrap-table "table table-striped table-bordered table-sm table-responsive">}}
|Directive Name | Syntax | Functionality | nginx.conf Contexts | Example |
| ---| ---| ---| ---| --- |
|load_module | load_module <library_file_path> | NGINX directive to load the App Protect module. It must be invoked with the App Protect library path | Global | load_module modules/ngx_http_app_protect_module.so |
|app_protect_enable | app_protect_enable on &#124; off | Whether to enable App Protect at the respective context. If not present, inherits from the parent context | HTTP, Server, Location | app_protect_enable on |
|app_protect_policy_file | app_protect_policy_file <file_path> | Set a App Protect policy configuring behavior for the respective context. | HTTP, Server, Location | app_protect_policy_file /config/waf/strict_policy.json |
|app_protect_security_log_enable | app_protect_security_log_enable on &#124; off | Whether to enable the App Protect per-request log at the respective context. | HTTP, Server, Location | app_protect_security_log_enable on |
|app_protect_security_log | app_protect_security_log <file_path> <destination> | Specifies the per-request logging: what to log and where | HTTP, Server, Location | app_protect_security_log /config/waf/log_illegal.json syslog:localhost:522 |
|app_protect_custom_log_attribute | app_protect_custom_log_attribute <key_value> | Specifies the assigned location/server/http dimension of each request. | HTTP, Server, Location | app_protect_custom_log_attribute ‘environment' 'env1' |
{{</bootstrap-table>}}


#### Horizontal Scaling

NGINX App Protect WAF can be deployed in multiple instances that share the traffic to the same applications. In that case all the instances must share the same configuration files. It is your responsibility to synchronize the files on all instances. You also have to provide a load balancing solution in front of those instances such as another NGINX instance.

When deploying multiple scalability instances you have to add the `app_protect_cookie_seed` directive to nginx.conf in the `http` block:

```nginx
...
http {
    ...
    app_protect_cookie_seed jkldsf90upiokasdj120;
    ...
    server {
        listen       80;
...
}
...
```

As the argument of this directive, put a random alphanumeric string of at least 20 characters length (but not more than 1000 characters). That seed is used by NGINX App Protect WAF to generate the encryption key for the cookies it creates. These cookies are used for various purposes such as validating the integrity of the cookies generated by the application.

In the absence of this directive, App Protect generates a random string by itself. In that case, each instance will have a different seed. A cookie created and encrypted on one instance of App Protect will fail to be decrypted when sent by the same client to another App Protect instance having a different encryption key.


#### Failure Mode

If the App Protect daemons are down or disconnected from the NGINX workers, there are two modes of operation until they are up and connected again:

-   **Pass** the traffic without inspection. Use this when preferring availability over security. This mode is also known as "fail open".
-   **Drop** the traffic. Use this when preferring security over availability. This mode is also known as "fail closed".

The default is to **pass**, fail open, but you can control this using the `app_protect_failure_mode_action` directive with one argument with two possible values: "pass" or "fail" for the two above options.

This directive is also placed in the `http` block of the nginx.conf file.

```nginx
...
http {
    ...
    app_protect_failure_mode_action drop;
    ...
    server {
        listen       80;
...
    }
...
```

#### Handling Compressed Requests

Starting with NGINX App Protect WAF release version 4.6, the [`app_protect_compressed_requests_action`](#global-directives) directive has been deprecated from the nginx configuration. When configuring this directive in the `nginx.conf` file, App Protect will disregard any previously used values ("pass" or "drop") and issue a warning.

#### Handling Decompression

Now by default the enforcer will decompress all the HTTP compressed payload request and will apply the enforcment. The supported compression algorithms for this feature are "**gzip**" and "**deflate**". There will be no decompression, if the compression method is not supported.

The 'Content-Encoding' header must match the compression algorithm used while sending compressed payload in a HTTP request, else the enfocer will fail to decompress the payload.

The decompressed request must not exceed the size limit of 10 MB. If it does exceed this limit, NGINX App Protect WAF will only decompress the first 10 KB, ignoring the remainder, and trigger the `VIOL_REQUEST_MAX_LENGTH` violation, just as it would for an uncompressed request that exceeds 10 MB.

In the cases where decompression fails,  NGINX App Protect WAF will continue with the scan in the same manner as it does for uncompressed requests.